In this lecture, I'm going to introduce you to containerisation and Dr. Containerisation involves encapsulating
or packaging up software code and all of its dependencies so that it can run uniformly and consistently
on any infrastructure.
Containerisation allows developers to create and deploy applications faster and more securely with traditional
methods.
Code is developed in a specific computing environment, which, when transferred to a new location,
often results in bugs and errors.
For example, when a developer transfers code from a desktop computer to a virtual machine or from a
lie next to a Windows operating system, containerisation eliminates this problem by bundling the application
code together with the related configuration files, libraries and dependencies required for it to run.
This single package of software is called the container and is abstracted away from the host operating
system and hence it stands alone and becomes portable, able to run across any platform or cloud free
of issues.
I will show you a diagram where we compare containers to virtual machines in a minute.
This ought to give you an even better understanding of containerisation.
Dufka is a containerisation technology that enables the creation of Linux containers, the docket technology
uses the Linux kernel and features of the kernel like see groups and name spaces to segregate processes
so that they can run independently.
This independence is the intention of container's the ability to run multiple processes and apps separately
from one another to make better use of your infrastructure while retaining the security that you would
have had with separate systems.
Dukkha has become the world's leading containerisation platform.
It is seen by many as the de facto container's standard.
And according to Docker, on average, companies using Dukkha experiences a seven times improvement
in how frequently they are able to ship software.
Consider the following diagram where containerised applications are compared to virtual machines.
Containers and virtual machines have similar resource isolation and allocation benefits, but functions
differently because containerised virtualize is the operating system instead of hardware, containers
are thus more portable and efficient.
Here you can see a HCF are running as containers on a docker engine containers on abstraction at the
application layer that packages code and dependencies.
Together they are less lightweight, and unlike virtual machines, each container does not come with
its own operating system.
Multiple containers can run on the same machine and share the kernel with other containers, each running
as isolated processes.
Containers takes up less space than virtual machines containing images are typically tens of megabytes
in size, can handle more applications and require fewer virtual machines and operating systems.
This significantly reduces infrastructure and licensing costs.
As you can see, virtual machines, on the other hand, are an abstraction of physical hardware, turning
one server into many servers.
The hypervisor allows multiple VMS to run on a single machine.
Each VM includes a full copy of an operating system, the application necessary binaries and libraries
taking up tens of gigabytes.
VMS can also be slow to boot.
Let's have a quick look at what you are going to learn in the section.
You will learn how to build Docker container images for the use of micro services, bank account, micro
services authorization server, as well as the API Gateway.
I'll then show you how to push these docker container images to a darker hub repo.
Then I will show you how to pull Dukkha images from a Docker hub repo and then show you how to deploy
these images as containers.
And then finally, I will show you some useful Dukkha commands.